---
title: "5 tips for YOLOv5 library CLI"
tags:
  - computervision
  - YOLO
  - detection
---

[YOLOv5](https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5) is a great library but has some unobvious features with its CLI version. In this post, I'll try to clarify some points, that I have encountered.

## Background images
Background images are images with no objects that are added to a dataset to reduce False Positives (FP). The documentation says:
> We recommend about 0-10% background images to help reduce FPs (COCO has 1000 background images for reference, 1% of the total). No labels are required for background images.  

Statement "No labels are required" not very clear. If you try to add only an image, it will be processed as "missing" and won't be included while training a model. Instead, you should also add an empty label file in the corresponding directory, so this image will be processed like "empty" as it should be.

## Batch sizes
You should use the largest batch size that your hardware allows for. Small batch sizes produce poor batchnorm statistics and should be avoided. So here is the table for batch sizes, if you're using 16GB GPU and image size 640px.

| Model size | Batch size | 
|-----------:|:----------:|
| yolov5s    | 64         | 
| yolov5m    | 40         | 
| yolov5l    | 24         | 
| yolov5x    | 16         | 

If you want to use 1280px images, divide these numbers by 4.

## Custom training
You can use further arguments to configure your custom training. Just pass listed arguments to CLI train command:
* **--data** to configure your data paths for images and labels (*default config file location: data/coco128.yaml*)
* **--cfg** to configure your model architecture
* **--weights** to define pretrained weights path
* **--hyp** to configure losses and augmentations for training model (*default config file location: data/hyps/hyp.scratch.yaml*)

## More CLI arguments
You can find all arguments [here](https://github.com/ultralytics/yolov5/blob/fad57c29cd27c0fcbc0038b7b7312b9b6ef922a8/train.py#L428). Small list of them, which were useful for me:
* **--cache** to cache images in "ram" (default) or "disk"
* **--linear-lr** to use linear learning rate schedule
* **--label-smoothing** to define epsilon for [label smoothing](https://arxiv.org/abs/1906.02629)
* **--freeze** to freeze layers, if you don't want to train them all
* **--resume** to resume most recent training

## Logs
Don't ignore logs, they are really well made. Here you can find warnings if you have some broken images, duplicated bounding boxes, outdated libraries, and so on.  
It's a little unobvious, but **duplicate labels** warning informs you about duplicated bounding boxes **inside** the label file. 
